# ClientServerDev

ReadMe

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
To write programs that are maintainable, readable and adaptable you have to start by creating the base functionality. While designing and creating the base code, in this case the CRUD Python code that interfaces with a database, you should be thinking about its use case and how that code can deliver those use cases in as simple of a way as possible. Because I wrote for the first project thinking this way I was able to use and quickly add onto my crud module for the functionality required in Project 2.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
When approaching a problem where I do not have a solution in mind, such as the dashboard for the Grazioso Salvare project, the first thing I did was to familiarize myself with parts of the libraries that I had to use with the official documentation. Then once I was able to start to use the libraries as I encountered problems I would reference the relevant documentation and find people who had similar problems on forms like github. This assignment was different from the others because I had to use Dash, a web application library, to create a graph to represent the dataset. I chose to use a pie chart as it is an easy way to comprehend one aspect of the dataset. I will definitely continue to read up on relevant documentation as soon as I get my hands on them as the base of knowledge helped me write and debug my project.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer Scientists solve problems. They are able to tailor solutions to specific problems and business pipelines to make processes more efficient and easier to use. Software like the  Grazioso Salvare project created allows a user to access and use a MongoDB database from a simple web application. Even if the user had the knowledge of how to use MongoDB, the newly added interface enables the  ability to access something quickly and in an easily understandable format will make their job easier and save them precious time.
